
# appendcols


## Description

Appends the fields of the subsearch results with the input search results. All fields of the subsearch are combined into the current results, with the exception of internal fields . For example, the first subsearch result is merged with the first main result, the second subsearch result is merged with the second main result, and so on.


## Syntax

appendcols [override= &lt;bool&gt; | &lt;subsearch-options&gt;...] &lt;subsearch&gt;


### Required arguments

subsearch

Description: A secondary search added to the main search. See how subsearches work in the Search Manual .


### Optional arguments

override

Syntax: override=&lt;bool&gt;

Description: If the override argument is false, and if a field is present in both a subsearch result and the main result, the main result is used. If override=true , the subsearch result value is used.

Default: override=false

subsearch-options

Syntax: maxtime=&lt;int&gt; | maxout=&lt;int&gt; | timeout=&lt;int&gt;

Description: These options control how the subsearch is executed.


### Subsearch options

maxtime

Syntax: maxtime=&lt;int&gt;

Description: The maximum time, in units of seconds, to spend on the subsearch before automatically finalizing.

Default : 60

maxout

Syntax: maxout=&lt;int&gt;

Description: The maximum number of result rows to output from the subsearch.

Default: 50000

timeout

Syntax: timeout=&lt;int&gt;

Description: The maximum time, in units of seconds, to wait for subsearch to fully finish.

Default: 60


## Usage

The appendcols command must be placed in a search string after a transforming command such as stats , chart , or timechart . The appendcols command can't be used before a transforming command because it must append to an existing set of table-formatted results, such as those generated by a transforming command. See Command types .

Note that the subsearch argument to the appendcols command doesn't have to contain a transforming command.


## Examples


### Example 1.

Search for "404" events and append the fields in each event to the previous search results.

CODE

Copy

index=_internal 
| table host 
| appendcols 
    [ search 404]


```spl

index=_internal 
| table host 
| appendcols 
    [ search 404]

```


This is a valid search string because appendcols comes after the transforming command table and adds columns to an existing table of results.


### Example 2.

This search uses appendcols to count the number of times a certain field occurs on a specific server and uses that value to calculate other fields.

CODE

Copy

specific.server 
| stats dc(userID) as totalUsers 
| appendcols 
    [ search specific.server AND "text" 
    | stats count(&lt;field&gt;) as variableA ] 
| eval variableB = exact(variableA/totalUsers)


```spl

specific.server 
| stats dc(userID) as totalUsers 
| appendcols 
    [ search specific.server AND "text" 
    | stats count(<field>) as variableA ] 
| eval variableB = exact(variableA/totalUsers)

```


- First, this search uses stats to count the number of individual users on a specific server and names that variable "totalUsers".

- Then, this search uses appendcols to search the server and count how many times a certain field occurs on that specific server. This count is renamed "VariableA".

- The eval command is used to define a "variableB".



The result is a table with the fields


```spl

totalUsers

```


,


```spl

variableA

```


, and


```spl

variableB

```


.




## See also

append , appendpipe , join , set