
# replace


## Description

Replaces field values in your search results with the values that you specify. Does not replace values in fields generated by stats or eval functions. If you do not specify a field, the value is replaced in all non-generated fields.

You can also use the replace() function with the eval command. For more information, see the evaluation functions .


## Syntax

replace (&lt;wc-string&gt; WITH &lt;wc-string&gt;)... [IN &lt;field-list&gt;]


### Required arguments

wc-string

Syntax: &lt;string&gt;

Description: Specify one or more field values and their replacements. You can use wildcard characters to match one or multiple terms.


### Optional arguments

field-list

Syntax: &lt;string&gt; ...

Description: Specify a comma or space delimited list of one or more field names for the field value replacements. To replace values on _internal fields, you must specify the field name with the IN &lt;fieldname&gt; clause.


## Usage

The replace command is a distributable streaming command. See Command types .

Non-wildcard replacement values specified later take precedence over those replacements specified earlier. For a wildcard replacement, fuller matches take precedence over lesser matches. To assure precedence relationships, you are advised to split the replace into two separate invocations. When using wildcard replacements, the result must have the same number of wildcards, or none at all. Wildcards ( \* ) can be used to specify many values to replace, or replace values with.


## Examples


### 1. Replace a value in all fields

Change any host value that ends with "localhost" to simply "localhost" in all fields.

CODE

Copy

... | replace \*localhost WITH localhost


```spl

... | replace *localhost WITH localhost

```



### 2. Replace a value in a specific field

Replace an IP address with a more descriptive name in the host field.

CODE

Copy

... | replace 127.0.0.1 WITH localhost IN host


```spl

... | replace 127.0.0.1 WITH localhost IN host

```



### 3. Change the value of two fields

Replaces the values in the start_month and end_month fields. You can separate the names in the field list with spaces or commas.

CODE

Copy

... | replace aug WITH August IN start_month end_month


```spl

... | replace aug WITH August IN start_month end_month

```



### 4. Change the order of values in a field

In the host field, change the order of string values that contain the word localhost so that the string "localhost" precedes the other strings.

CODE

Copy

... | replace "\* localhost" WITH "localhost \*" IN host


```spl

... | replace "* localhost" WITH "localhost *" IN host

```



### 5. Replace multiple values in a field

Replace the values in a field with more descriptive names. Separate the value replacements with comma.

CODE

Copy

... | replace 0 WITH Critical, 1 WITH Error IN msg_level


```spl

... | replace 0 WITH Critical, 1 WITH Error IN msg_level

```



### 6. Replace empty strings

Search for an error message and replace empty strings with a whitespace.




> **Note: This example will not work unless you have values that are actually the empty string, which is not the same as not having a value.**


CODE

Copy

"Error exporting to XYZ :" | rex "Error exporting to XYZ:(?.\*)" | replace
"" WITH " " IN errmsg


```spl

"Error exporting to XYZ :" | rex "Error exporting to XYZ:(?.*)" | replace
"" WITH " " IN errmsg

```



### 7: Replace values in an internal field

Replace values of the internal field _time .

CODE

Copy

sourcetype=\* | head 5 | eval _time="XYZ" | stats count BY _time | replace \*XYZ\* WITH \*ALL\* IN _time


```spl

sourcetype=* | head 5 | eval _time="XYZ" | stats count BY _time | replace *XYZ* WITH *ALL* IN _time

```



## See also

Commands

rename